Rescission" in the sense of termination. Rescission in this sense is not the focus of this article. Where a contract is terminated  obligations under the contract are only discharged prospectively; the contract is not rendered void ab initio. Rescission in the sense of termination covers two key situations:
First  where a party to a contract exercises an express right of termination  he or she is sometimes said to have exercised a right to rescind the contract.
Secondly  where a party is faced with a repudiation  the party can elect to terminate the contract; this too has often been referred to as an election to rescind.
"Rescission" at common law. Rescission at common law (as distinct from rescission in Equity) is a self-help remedy: historically  the common law courts simply gave effect to the rescinding party's unequivocal election to rescind the contract. Rescission at common law is only available for fraudulent misrepresentations and duress. Rescission renders the contract void ab initio. Courts of Equity exercised a jurisdiction to effect rescission where restoring the parties to the contract to their pre-contract positions was not possible at common law.
In the letter  Senator McCain stated that the proposed rule’s “cumbersome and excessively bureaucratic requirements” to provide cost data for commercial item procurements “could effectively preclude any significant participation by commercial firms in defense programs.” Senator McCain recognized that the requirements in the proposed rule would  in effect  require commercial item contractors to create new accounting systems before conducting business with the DOD. He further stressed that commercial item contractors are likely to exit the government procurement market rather than undertake these significant regulatory obligations  depriving the DOD of the opportunity to procure vital  cuttingedge technologies.
Moreover  the increased regulatory burdens for commercial item procurements in the proposed rule  according to Senator McCain  are directly contrary to the DOD’s ongoing efforts to engage more hightech commercial firms in the government procurement market and serve as “a signal that DOD has little interest in realistic commercial acquisition practices